---
title: "The effect of predictability and unpredictability of music on physiological aspects of emotional responses"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/2002-01-01-music-predictability-emotional-responses
excerpt: 'The interactions of various musical factors influence many aspects of emotion. Among the musical factors related with emotional qualities, this study is focused on propensity of music, predictability. Predictability and unpredictability of music used in this study is based on the theory of Meyer, regarding to the meaning of music and the emotion. Meyer suggested in his theory that delayed or blocked expectancy causes emotion and we can experience the release of emotion, when meaningful solutions are accompanied in the musical context. The purpose of this study was to investigate the Effects of predictability and unpredictability of music on the physiological aspects of emotional responses. In this study 50 subjects, 27 females and 23males raging 20 to 38, were participated in two groups and selected randomly: predictability music group(N=25) and unpredictability group(N=25). The Music given to predictability music group was J. S. Bach's Brandenburg Concerto No.1 BWV 1046 2nd mov. and the music given to unpredictability music group was Arvo Pärt's Collage sur b-a-c-h 2 mov.. Physiological responses were measured with EEG, systolic and diastolic blood pressure, heart rate in each group. Psychological responses were assessed with Spielberger State Anxiety Inventory and MAACL in Korean version. This study shows the following results: First physiological changes between 2 groups were significant. Alpha waves and beta waves of some particular regions and heart beat were significant(p<.05, p<.01, p<.001) but systolic and diastolic blood pressure were not significant(p>.05). Second, psychological changes between 2 groups were not significant(p>.05). Third, an analysis of Pearson co-relationships between physiological and psychological responses were not significant except for the heart rate-MAACL(p<.01) and heart rate- STAI(p>.05). In conclusion, this study shows that the predictability and unpredictability of music can cause different physiological responses of the emotion. Specially in the unpredictability of music, we can observe the increase of alpha wave and decrease of beta wave, heart rate. These results suggest a possibility of alternatives that the proper usage of unpredictability music is effective to emotional stability and equilibrium. In addition these results suggest clinical applications of atonal music.'
date: 2002-01-01
citation: 'Jeong, E. (2002). &quot;The effect of predictability and unpredictability of music on physiological aspects of emotional responses.&quot; <i>Korean Journal of Music Therapy</i>. 3(2), 41-68.'
---
