---
title: "A Scoping Review of Music-Integrated Digital Therapeutics for Mild Cognitive Impairment"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/2024-02-01-music-digital-therapeutics-mci
excerpt: 'This study aimed to identify current research trends through a scoping review of intervention studies utilizing music-integrated digital therapeutics for patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI). Based on the findings, the study sought to propose future research directions and implications for the integration of music and digital technologies in MCI treatment. Using a methodology based on a scoping review protocol, international studies published between 2011 and 2024 were analyzed. Relevant databases, including PubMed, Embase, ProQuest, Web of Science, and CINAHL, were searched using keywords such as "mild cognitive impairment," "music," "intervention," "computer," and "tablet." Among the 928 studies identified, 12 met the inclusion criteria and were analyzed to examine the general characteristics of MCI interventions using music-integrated digital therapeutics and the therapeutic applications of music and digital technologies. Furthermore, the study explored the digital devices and systems delivering the interventions, measurement tools used across intervention domains, and the functions and mechanisms of music and digital devices. The results demonstrated that music-integrated digital therapeutics positively influence cognitive and emotional functions in MCI patients, highlighting their significance as effective interventions for the elderly. Specifically, music provided auditory stimulation and emotional stability, contributing to improved cognitive function and quality of life. The integration of digital devices enabled personalized interventions, enhancing usability and adaptability for individual users.'
date: 2024-10-30
citation: 'Ko, H-E, & Jeong, E. (2024). &quot;A Scoping Review of Music-Integrated Digital Therapeutics for Mild Cognitive Impairment.&quot; <i>Korean Journal of Arts Therapy</i>. 45(3), 69-99.'
---
