---
title: "Virtual reality-based music attention training for acquired brain injury: A randomized crossover study"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/2024-01-01-vr-music-attention-training
excerpt: 'This single-blind randomized crossover study aimed to explore the effectiveness of virtual reality-based music attention training (VR-MAT) on cognitive function and examine its potential as a cognitive assessment tool in people with acquired brain injury (ABI). Overall, 24 participants with cognitive impairment secondary to a first-ever ABI underwent VR-MAT and conventional cognitive training (CCT) 3 months after onset. This was performed in two 4-week phases, over 8 weeks. During VR-MAT, participants engaged in attention training through a four-level virtual drumming program designed to enhance various attentional aspects. In contrast, during CCT, participants underwent structured conventional training, including card sorting and computerized training. Neuropsychological evaluations were performed preintervention, during the fourth and eighth weeks, and post-intervention using tests to evaluate attention and executive function, along with global neuropsychological assessments. In the VR-MAT group, significant differences were observed between pre- and post-intervention in the trail making test-black and white version B (p = 0.009) and version B-A (p = 0.018) and clinical dementia rating-sum of boxes (p = 0.035). In the CCT group, significant differences were observed in spatial working memory (p = 0.005) and the mini-mental state examination scores (p = 0.003). VR-MAT is an effective cognitive intervention that is particularly beneficial for improving attention in people with ABI.'
date: 2024-01-01
citation: 'Jeong E, Ham Y, Lee SJ, Shin JH. (2024). &quot;Virtual reality-based music attention training for acquired brain injury: A randomized crossover study.&quot; <i>Annals of the New York Academy of Science</i>. 1541(1), 151-162.'
---
