---
title: "Measurements of physiological responses to noise-induced stress: A scoping review"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/2024-03-01-noise-stress-physiological
excerpt: 'Noise induces discomfort and stress, affecting overall behavioral functions. Various attempts has been made to quantify noise-related stress, with the measurement of physiological responses gaining particular attention for its potential to detect stress before conscious awareness. Despite the advantages of using physiological responses, a consensus has not been reached, possibly due to the heterogeneity in experimental-related factors such as settings, design, methods, and individual differences. The present study aimed to review studies that employed physiological responses to measure noise-related stress. Using keywords such as "Noise," "Stress," "Electroencephalogram (EEG)," "Electrocardiogram (ECG)," and "Photoplethysmogram (PPG)," we conducted a literature search in PubMed and Web of Science to identify studies from the past six years. Eighteen studies meeting selection criteria were analyzed through a scoping review method, focusing on general characteristics, noise properties, physiological measurements and indicators, and physiological indicators specific to noise type. Results showed that most studies involved adult participants in their 20s (average 28.5), used laboratory noise exposure via speakers alongside cognitive tasks to induce stress. EEG indicators included frequency band amplitudes, while ECG metrics covered heart rate, heart rate variability, and high frequency/low frequency ratios. The EEG and ECG responses to noise stress varied by noise type, with distinct differences in EEG frequency band indicators and ECG variability metrics. These findings suggest that diverse physiological responses can be effectively used as evaluation metrics for noise management and noise-related stress reduction technologies.'
date: 2024-11-30
citation: 'Cheon, J., Hong, Y. J., Shin, H. J., & Jeong, E. (2024). &quot;Measurements of physiological responses to noise-induced stress: A scoping review.&quot; <i>The Journal of the Acoustical Society of Korea</i>. 43(6), 686-700.'
---
